model/README.adoc, before:

= Judo Query Language

JQL is a simple expression language, which is generally independent of the queried data model.

== Syntax overview

An expression is evaluated to a single value (which of course can be a collection etc.) Newline characters are ignored in the expressions, so it is possible (and often advisable) to create multiline expression.


=== Comments
Comments can be used to expression documentation. Two kinds of comments exist:

* Single line comments, starting with `//`
* Multiline comments, between `/\*` and `*/` characters.

=== Types
JQL has the following built-in types

* Boolean
* String
* Integer
* Decimal
* Date
* Timestamp

=== Literals

==== Numeric literals

* An *integer literal* is a sequence of digits, in base 10, eg. `42`.
* A *decimal literal* represents an arbitrary precision real number: `3.14`, `100.0`

=== Boolean literal
A boolean literal is either `true` or `false`.

=== String literal
A string literal is a character sequence inside either single or double quotes, eg. `'Hello'` or `"world"`.

=== Temporal literals
* Dates can be represented as literals using the syntax `{2019-09-01}`.
* Timestsamps can be represented as literals using the syntax `{2019-09-01T14:30Z}`

=== Enum literals
Use backtick (+`+) character to denote enum literals, eg. `+`MONDAY+` or `+`Days::MONDAY+` 

=== Identifiers

Identifiers represent names such as entities, attributes, relations. They start with letter or underscore consecuted by letters, underscore or digits.
Optionally an identifier name can be prefixed with a caret (`^`) symbol. Valid identifiers include `order`, `_order10`, `^price_rise`.

=== Operators

==== Unary operators
 
* `!`, `not`, `NOT`- logical negation
* `-` - arithmetical negation
* `+`
 
==== Logical operators

* `or`, `OR` - logical OR operation
* `and`, `AND` - logical AND operation
* `==` - equals
* `!=` - not equals

==== Comparison operators

* `>`, `<`, `>=`, `\<=`

==== Arithmetical operators
* `*` integer or decimal multiplication. If either of the operands is a decimal the result is decimal.
* `/` division, the result is always a decimal number
* `%`, `mod` or `MOD`: integer remainder operation, both operands must be integers
* `div` or `DIV`: integer division operation, both operands must be integers, the result is an integer

==== String operators
* `||` - string concatenation

=== Parentheses
Expressions can be parenthesized, `(1 + 2)`, `(true)`.

=== Qualified names

* A qualified name is an identifier followed by two colons and an other identifier `::`. Qualified names can be chained as in `Measurements::Mass::kg`.

=== Selectors
* A selector is used to access a feature (attribute, relation etc.) of an element. 
The selector operator is dot (`.`), eg. `item.price`.

== Measured values
JQL expressions support measured quantities, eg. `10[kg]`, where the measure is identified by the optionally qualified name of the measure, eg.
`10[kg] + 5[Mass:g]`

== CASE..WHEN
Multiple cases for the value of an expression can be returned using the following syntax:
```
CASE self.orderQuantity AS q WHEN q < 10 THEN true ELSE false
```
In case of enumerations and equality checks there is a shorthand syntax:
```
CASE self.orderDay WHEN `Monday THEN 0 WHEN `Tuesday THEN 1 ELSE -1
```
```
CASE self.id WHEN 10 THEN true ELSE false
```

== Functions

You can use some *built-in* functions using the following syntax: `self.description!length`

=== Numeric functions
* `round`

=== String functions

* `concat` eg. `self.description!concat(self.copyright)`
* `lowerCase` eg. `self.name!lowerCase`
* `upperCase`
* `length`
* `substring(startIndex, endIndex)`
* `position(str)`
* `replace(regex, replacement)`
* `trim`

=== Collection functions
* `join(delimiter)`
* `count`
* `limit(count, offset)`
* `sort(field, descending)`

=== Lambda functions
* `filter(lambda)` eg. `self.orderDetails!filter(od | od.price 10)` 

=== Type-checking functions
* `kindof(type)`, evaluates to `true` if the given object is or a descendant of type eg. `self.field!instanceof(Lib::MyType)`
* `typeof(type)` evaluates to `true` if the given object is of type

== Type safety
JQL expressions do strict type checking.

=== Casting
To make sure JQL correctly identifies a type you might need to cast using `@`, eg. 
`self.od@Lib::MyIntegerCollection!filter(elem | elem < 10)`

Commit message:

JNG-292: Make JQL case insensitive

model/README.adoc, after:

= Judo Query Language

JQL is a simple expression language, which is generally independent of the queried data model.

== Syntax overview

An expression is evaluated to a single value (which of course can be a collection etc.) Newline characters are ignored in the expressions, so it is possible (and often advisable) to create multiline expression.

JQL keywords are case insensitive, so you can write the boolean `true` value as `TRUE` or `True` as well. 


=== Comments
Comments can be used to expression documentation. Two kinds of comments exist:

* Single line comments, starting with `//`
* Multiline comments, between `/\*` and `*/` characters.

=== Types
JQL has the following built-in types

* Boolean
* String
* Integer
* Decimal
* Date
* Timestamp

=== Literals

==== Numeric literals

* An *integer literal* is a sequence of digits, in base 10, eg. `42`.
* A *decimal literal* represents an arbitrary precision real number: `3.14`, `100.0`

=== Boolean literal
A boolean literal is either `true` or `false`.

=== String literal
A string literal is a character sequence inside either single or double quotes, eg. `'Hello'` or `"world"`.

=== Temporal literals
* Dates can be represented as literals using the syntax `{2019-09-01}`.
* Timestsamps can be represented as literals using the syntax `{2019-09-01T14:30Z}`

=== Enum literals
Use backtick (+`+) character to denote enum literals, eg. `+`MONDAY+` or `+`Days::MONDAY+` 

=== Identifiers

Identifiers represent names such as entities, attributes, relations. They start with letter or underscore consecuted by letters, underscore or digits.
Optionally an identifier name can be prefixed with a caret (`^`) symbol. Valid identifiers include `order`, `_order10`, `^price_rise`.

=== Operators

==== Unary operators
 
* `!`, `not`, `NOT`- logical negation
* `-` - arithmetical negation
* `+`
 
==== Logical operators

* `or`, `OR` - logical OR operation
* `and`, `AND` - logical AND operation
* `==` - equals
* `!=` - not equals

==== Comparison operators

* `>`, `<`, `>=`, `\<=`

==== Arithmetical operators
* `*` integer or decimal multiplication. If either of the operands is a decimal the result is decimal.
* `/` division, the result is always a decimal number
* `%`, `mod` or `MOD`: integer remainder operation, both operands must be integers
* `div` or `DIV`: integer division operation, both operands must be integers, the result is an integer

==== String operators
* `||` - string concatenation

=== Parentheses
Expressions can be parenthesized, `(1 + 2)`, `(true)`.

=== Qualified names

* A qualified name is an identifier followed by two colons and an other identifier `::`. Qualified names can be chained as in `Measurements::Mass::kg`.

=== Selectors
* A selector is used to access a feature (attribute, relation etc.) of an element. 
The selector operator is dot (`.`), eg. `item.price`.

== Measured values
JQL expressions support measured quantities, eg. `10[kg]`, where the measure is identified by the optionally qualified name of the measure, eg.
`10[kg] + 5[Mass:g]`

== Functions

You can use some *built-in* functions using the following syntax: `self.description!length`

=== Numeric functions
* `round`

=== String functions

* `concat` eg. `self.description!concat(self.copyright)`
* `lowerCase` eg. `self.name!lowerCase`
* `upperCase`
* `length`
* `substring(startIndex, endIndex)`
* `position(str)`
* `replace(regex, replacement)`
* `trim`

=== Collection functions
* `join(delimiter)`
* `count`
* `limit(count, offset)`
* `sort(field, descending)`

=== Lambda functions
* `filter(lambda)` eg. `self.orderDetails!filter(od | od.price 10)` 

=== Type-checking functions
* `kindof(type)`, evaluates to `true` if the given object is or a descendant of type eg. `self.field!instanceof(Lib::MyType)`
* `typeof(type)` evaluates to `true` if the given object is of type

== Type safety
JQL expressions do strict type checking.

=== Casting
To make sure JQL correctly identifies a type you might need to cast using `@`, eg. 
`self.od@Lib::MyIntegerCollection!filter(elem | elem < 10)`
